README.md, before:

# Google Drive-style application with FGA

This is a simplified Google Drive-style application to demonstrate how to use [OpenFGA](https://openfga.dev) or [Okta FGA](https://fga.dev) to handle Fine Grained Authorization (FGA) on a per-resource level.

A user can log in, add files (pictures only), and create folders. Uploaded files are only visible to them by defaullt. They can choose to either share a file directly with other users or share folders (or subfolders), and all files contained within them will be shared automatically. Files can be shared with other users available in the Auth0 tenant; the application will look for them based on their email address.

This demo uses both Auth0 ([create a free account here](https://auth0.com)), and either [OpenFGA](https://openfga.dev).

The data is stored in a [Vercel KV store](https://vercel.com/docs/storage/vercel-kv).

![A preview of the demo application showing a Google Drive-style interface](./preview.png)

## 1. Getting Started

Copy the `.env.sample` file to `.env.local`, and fill in the missing environment variables:

```bash
cp .env.sample .env.local
```

Install the npm dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

Run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser to see the result.

## 2. Configure Auth0

1. Go to the [Auth0 dashboard](https://manage.auth0.com/) and create a new application of type **Regular Web Application**.
2. Go to the settings page of the application.
3. Configure the following settings:

- **Allowed Callback URLs**: Should be set to `http://localhost:3000/` when testing locally or typically to `https://myapp.com/` when deploying your application.
- **Allowed Logout URLs**: Should be set to `http://localhost:3000/` when testing locally or typically to `https://myapp.com/` when deploying your application.
- **Allowed Web Origins**: Should be set to `http://localhost:3000` when testing locally or typically to `https://myapp.com/` when deploying your application.

4. Save the settings.

### Auth0 environment

```bash
# A long, secret value used to encrypt the session cookie
AUTH0_SECRET='LONG_RANDOM_VALUE'
# The base url of your application
AUTH0_BASE_URL='http://localhost:3000'
# The url of your Auth0 tenant domain
AUTH0_ISSUER_BASE_URL='https://YOUR_AUTH0_DOMAIN.auth0.com'
# Your Auth0 application's Client ID
AUTH0_CLIENT_ID='YOUR_AUTH0_CLIENT_ID'
# Your Auth0 application's Client Secret
AUTH0_CLIENT_SECRET='YOUR_AUTH0_CLIENT_SECRET'
```

You can execute the following command to generate a suitable string for the `AUTH0_SECRET` value:

```javascript
node -e "console.log(crypto.randomBytes(32).toString('hex'))"
```

## 3. OpenFGA configuration

In this sample. We are going to use OpenFGA to make access acontrol decisions. If you prefer to use the a managed FGA service, you may want to use the `main` branch and configure [Okta FGA](https://docs.fga.dev/) instead. Both use the same SDK, so once set up, your application can connect to either choice.

### OpenFGA

To run your OpenFGA server locally, follow the steps described on [this page](https://openfga.dev/docs/getting-started/setup-openfga/overview).

### OpenFGA Authentication
In order to run this sample with OpenFGA, you need to configure authentication.
Please refer [Configuring Authentication](https://openfga.dev/docs/getting-started/setup-openfga/configure-openfga#configuring-authentication) on Documentation.

An easy way to use `Pre-shared Key Authentication` for the authentication. Here's a sample command you can execute for the OpenFGA server (reccomending the change playground's port if a conflict of port occurs.)

```bash
openfga run --playground-port 3001 --authn-method preshared --authn-preshared-keys key1
```

With the above command, we set the pre-shared key as `key1`. Change the key as necessary.

### OpenFGA environment

```bash
# The url of your OpenFGA
FGA_API_URL='https://localhost:8080'
# The store ID found in your OpenFGA
FGA_STORE_ID=
# The authorization model ID found in your OpenFGA. This model ID changes with each change to the model
FGA_AUTHORIZATION_MODEL_ID=
# The FGA token issuer
FGA_API_TOKEN_ISSUER='http://localhost:8080'
# The API audience
FGA_API_AUDIENCE='https://localhost:8080'
# Pre-shared Key for OpenFGA Server's authentication
OPENFGA_AUTHN_PRESHARED_KEY=
```

### OpenFGA Model

The OpenFGA model used for this application looks similar to the Google Drive example on the [OpenFGA Playground](https://openfga.dev/docs/getting-started/setup-openfga/playground), with some minor tweaks.

The application currently does not implement all functionality, like editing or deleting files and folders. This might be added in the future.

```
model
  schema 1.1

type user

type file
  relations
    define can_delete: owner or owner from parent
    define can_share: owner or owner from parent
    define can_view: viewer or owner or viewer from parent
    define can_write: owner or owner from parent
    define is_owned: owner
    define is_shared: can_view but not owner
    define owner: [user]
    define parent: [folder]
    define viewer: [user, user:*]

type folder
  relations
    define can_create_file: owner or owner from parent
    define can_create_folder: owner or owner from parent
    define can_share: owner or owner from parent
    define can_view: viewer or owner or viewer from parent
    define owner: [user]
    define parent: [folder]
    define viewer: [user, user:*] or owner or viewer from parent
```

### OpenFGA

The application does the following OpenFGA checks:

#### Files

- Requesting a file:
  - Check if the current user has a `can_view` relationship to a file.
- Requesting all files for a folder:
  - Check if the current user has a `can_view` relationship to a folder.
  - Check for a `can_view` relationship for all files.
- Uploading a file:
  - Check for a `can_create_file` relationship to the parent folder.
  - Once uploaded:
    - Write a tuple setting the user as the `owner` of the new file.
    - Write a tuple setting the parent folder as the `parent` of the new file.
- Sharing a file:
  - Check if the current user has a `can_share` relationship with the file.
  - Write a tuple setting the user we shared the file with as a `viewer` of the file.
- Editing a file:
  - TBD
- Deleting a file:
  - TBD

#### Folders

- Requesting a folder:
  - Check if the current user has a `can_view` relationship to the folder.
- Requesting all folders for a parent folder:
  - Check if the current user has a `can_view` relationship to the parent folder.
  - Check for a `can_view` relationship with all folders withing the parent.
- Creating a new folder:
  - Check if the user has a `can_create_folder` relationship for its parent.
  - Once created:
    - Write a new tuple setting the current user as its `owner`.
    - Write a new tuple setting the parent folders as its `parent`.
- Sharing a folder:
  - Check if the curent user `can_share` the folder.
  - Write a tuple setting the new user as a `viewer`.
- Editing a folder:
  - TBD
- Deleting a folder:
  - TBD

## 4. Configure Vercel KV

Go to the [Vercel dashboard](https://vercel.com/) and create a new KV store.

You can copy the below `.env` variables from the **Getting started** page of your store:

### Vercel KV environment

```bash
KV_URL="redis://****.upstash.io:****"
KV_REST_API_URL="https://****.upstash.io"
KV_REST_API_TOKEN="****"
KV_REST_API_READ_ONLY_TOKEN="****"
```

## 5. Architecture

### Get a file

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram;
  participant Next.js Page
  participant Next.js Server Actions
  participant Data Access Layer (DAL)
  participant Vercel KV
  participant Uploads folder
  participant Auth0
  participant OpenFGA
  Next.js Page->>Next.js Server Actions: Request file action
  Next.js Server Actions->>Data Access Layer (DAL): Pass get file request
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)Auth0: Authentication Check
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Authorization Check for file (user, can_view, file)
  Data Access Layer (DAL)->>Vercel KV: Look for file in the store
  Vercel KV->>Data Access Layer (DAL): Return file location
  Data Access Layer (DAL)->>Next.js Server Actions: Return file location
  Next.js Server Actions->>Next.js Page: Return file location
  Next.js Page->>Uploads folder: Request file
  Uploads folder->>Next.js Page: Display file
```

### Get files for folder

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram;
  participant Next.js Page
  participant Next.js Server Actions
  participant Data Access Layer (DAL)
  participant Vercel KV
  participant Auth0
  participant OpenFGA
  Next.js Page->>Next.js Server Actions: Request files action
  Next.js Server Actions->>Data Access Layer (DAL): Pass get files request
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)Auth0: Authentication Check
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Authorization Check for parent folder (user,can_view, folder)
  Data Access Layer (DAL)->>Vercel KV: Look for files in the store
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Check Authorization for each file (user, can_view, file)
  Vercel KV->>Data Access Layer (DAL): Return files
  Data Access Layer (DAL)->>Next.js Server Actions: Return files
  Next.js Server Actions->>Next.js Page: Return files
```

### Upload a file

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram;
  participant Next.js Page
  participant Next.js Server Actions
  participant Data Access Layer (DAL)
  participant Vercel KV
  participant Uploads folder
  participant Auth0
  participant OpenFGA
  Next.js Page->>Next.js Server Actions: Upload file action
  Next.js Server Actions->>Data Access Layer (DAL): Pass the uploaded file
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)Auth0: Authentication Check
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Authorization Check for parent folder (user, can_create_file, folder)
  Data Access Layer (DAL)->>Uploads folder: Upload image file
  Data Access Layer (DAL)->>Vercel KV: Store image metadata
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Create new tuple (user, owner, file)
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Create new tuple (parent folder, parent, file)
  Data Access Layer (DAL)->>Next.js Server Actions: Return files
  Next.js Server Actions->>Next.js Page: Return files
```

### Share a file

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram;
  participant Next.js Page
  participant Next.js Server Actions
  participant Data Access Layer (DAL)
  participant Auth0
  participant OpenFGA
  Next.js Page->>Next.js Server Actions: Share file action
  Next.js Server Actions->>Data Access Layer (DAL): Pass the shared file data
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)Auth0: Authentication Check
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Authorization check (user, can_share, file)
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)Auth0: Request userId from email
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Create new tuple (userId, viewer, file)
```

### Get a folder

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram;
  participant Next.js Page
  participant Next.js Server Actions
  participant Data Access Layer (DAL)
  participant Vercel KV
  participant Auth0
  participant OpenFGA
  Next.js Page->>Next.js Server Actions: Request folder action
  Next.js Server Actions->>Data Access Layer (DAL): Pass get folder request
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)Auth0: Authentication Check
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Authorization Check for folder (user, can_view, folder)
  Data Access Layer (DAL)->>Vercel KV: Look for fodler metadata in the store
  Vercel KV->>Data Access Layer (DAL): Return folder metadata
  Data Access Layer (DAL)->>Next.js Server Actions: Return folder
  Next.js Server Actions->>Next.js Page: Return folder metadata
```

### Get folders for folder

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram;
  participant Next.js Page
  participant Next.js Server Actions
  participant Data Access Layer (DAL)
  participant Vercel KV
  participant Auth0
  participant OpenFGA
  Next.js Page->>Next.js Server Actions: Request folders action
  Next.js Server Actions->>Data Access Layer (DAL): Pass get folders request
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)Auth0: Authentication Check
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Authorization Check for parent folder (user, can_view, parent folder)
  Data Access Layer (DAL)->>Vercel KV: Look for folders in the store
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Check Authorization for each folders (user, can_view, folder)
  Vercel KV->>Data Access Layer (DAL): Return folders
  Data Access Layer (DAL)->>Next.js Server Actions: Return folders
  Next.js Server Actions->>Next.js Page: Return folders
```

### Create a folder

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram;
  participant Next.js Page
  participant Next.js Server Actions
  participant Data Access Layer (DAL)
  participant Vercel KV
  participant Auth0
  participant OpenFGA
  Next.js Page->>Next.js Server Actions: Create folder action
  Next.js Server Actions->>Data Access Layer (DAL): Pass the new folder name and  parent
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)Auth0: Authentication Check
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Authorization Check for parent folder (user, can_create_folder, parent folder)
  Data Access Layer (DAL)->>Vercel KV: Store folder data
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Create new tuple (user, owner, folder)
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Create new tuple (parent folder, parent, folder)
  Data Access Layer (DAL)->>Next.js Server Actions: Return folder name
  Next.js Server Actions->>Next.js Page: Return folder name
```

### Share a folder

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram;
  participant Next.js Page
  participant Next.js Server Actions
  participant Data Access Layer (DAL)
  participant Auth0
  participant OpenFGA
  Next.js Page->>Next.js Server Actions: Share folder action
  Next.js Server Actions->>Data Access Layer (DAL): Pass the shared folder data
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)Auth0: Authentication Check
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Authorization check (user, can_share, folder)
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)Auth0: Request userId from email
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Create new tuple (userId, viewer, folder)
```

Commit message:

add note to main branch if people want to use Okta FGA

README.md, after:

# Google Drive-style application with FGA

This is a simplified Google Drive-style application to demonstrate how to use [OpenFGA](https://openfga.dev) or [Okta FGA](https://fga.dev) to handle Fine Grained Authorization (FGA) on a per-resource level.

A user can log in, add files (pictures only), and create folders. Uploaded files are only visible to them by defaullt. They can choose to either share a file directly with other users or share folders (or subfolders), and all files contained within them will be shared automatically. Files can be shared with other users available in the Auth0 tenant; the application will look for them based on their email address.

This branch uses both Auth0 ([create a free account here](https://auth0.com)), and [OpenFGA](https://openfga.dev).

> [!NOTE]
> If you prefer using [Okta FGA](https://auth0.com/fine-grained-authorization), switch to the branch `main`

The data is stored in a [Vercel KV store](https://vercel.com/docs/storage/vercel-kv).

![A preview of the demo application showing a Google Drive-style interface](./preview.png)

## 1. Getting Started

Copy the `.env.sample` file to `.env.local`, and fill in the missing environment variables:

```bash
cp .env.sample .env.local
```

Install the npm dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

Run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser to see the result.

## 2. Configure Auth0

1. Go to the [Auth0 dashboard](https://manage.auth0.com/) and create a new application of type **Regular Web Application**.
2. Go to the settings page of the application.
3. Configure the following settings:

- **Allowed Callback URLs**: Should be set to `http://localhost:3000/` when testing locally or typically to `https://myapp.com/` when deploying your application.
- **Allowed Logout URLs**: Should be set to `http://localhost:3000/` when testing locally or typically to `https://myapp.com/` when deploying your application.
- **Allowed Web Origins**: Should be set to `http://localhost:3000` when testing locally or typically to `https://myapp.com/` when deploying your application.

4. Save the settings.

### Auth0 environment

```bash
# A long, secret value used to encrypt the session cookie
AUTH0_SECRET='LONG_RANDOM_VALUE'
# The base url of your application
AUTH0_BASE_URL='http://localhost:3000'
# The url of your Auth0 tenant domain
AUTH0_ISSUER_BASE_URL='https://YOUR_AUTH0_DOMAIN.auth0.com'
# Your Auth0 application's Client ID
AUTH0_CLIENT_ID='YOUR_AUTH0_CLIENT_ID'
# Your Auth0 application's Client Secret
AUTH0_CLIENT_SECRET='YOUR_AUTH0_CLIENT_SECRET'
```

You can execute the following command to generate a suitable string for the `AUTH0_SECRET` value:

```javascript
node -e "console.log(crypto.randomBytes(32).toString('hex'))"
```

## 3. OpenFGA configuration

In this sample. We are going to use OpenFGA to make access acontrol decisions. If you prefer to use the a managed FGA service, you may want to use the `main` branch and configure [Okta FGA](https://docs.fga.dev/) instead. Both use the same SDK, so once set up, your application can connect to either choice.

### OpenFGA

To run your OpenFGA server locally, follow the steps described on [this page](https://openfga.dev/docs/getting-started/setup-openfga/overview).

### OpenFGA Authentication
In order to run this sample with OpenFGA, you need to configure authentication.
Please refer [Configuring Authentication](https://openfga.dev/docs/getting-started/setup-openfga/configure-openfga#configuring-authentication) on Documentation.

An easy way to use `Pre-shared Key Authentication` for the authentication. Here's a sample command you can execute for the OpenFGA server (reccomending the change playground's port if a conflict of port occurs.)

```bash
openfga run --playground-port 3001 --authn-method preshared --authn-preshared-keys key1
```

With the above command, we set the pre-shared key as `key1`. Change the key as necessary.

### OpenFGA environment

```bash
# The url of your OpenFGA
FGA_API_URL='https://localhost:8080'
# The store ID found in your OpenFGA
FGA_STORE_ID=
# The authorization model ID found in your OpenFGA. This model ID changes with each change to the model
FGA_AUTHORIZATION_MODEL_ID=
# The FGA token issuer
FGA_API_TOKEN_ISSUER='http://localhost:8080'
# The API audience
FGA_API_AUDIENCE='https://localhost:8080'
# Pre-shared Key for OpenFGA Server's authentication
OPENFGA_AUTHN_PRESHARED_KEY=
```

### OpenFGA Model

The OpenFGA model used for this application looks similar to the Google Drive example on the [OpenFGA Playground](https://openfga.dev/docs/getting-started/setup-openfga/playground), with some minor tweaks.

The application currently does not implement all functionality, like editing or deleting files and folders. This might be added in the future.

```
model
  schema 1.1

type user

type file
  relations
    define can_delete: owner or owner from parent
    define can_share: owner or owner from parent
    define can_view: viewer or owner or viewer from parent
    define can_write: owner or owner from parent
    define is_owned: owner
    define is_shared: can_view but not owner
    define owner: [user]
    define parent: [folder]
    define viewer: [user, user:*]

type folder
  relations
    define can_create_file: owner or owner from parent
    define can_create_folder: owner or owner from parent
    define can_share: owner or owner from parent
    define can_view: viewer or owner or viewer from parent
    define owner: [user]
    define parent: [folder]
    define viewer: [user, user:*] or owner or viewer from parent
```

### OpenFGA

The application does the following OpenFGA checks:

#### Files

- Requesting a file:
  - Check if the current user has a `can_view` relationship to a file.
- Requesting all files for a folder:
  - Check if the current user has a `can_view` relationship to a folder.
  - Check for a `can_view` relationship for all files.
- Uploading a file:
  - Check for a `can_create_file` relationship to the parent folder.
  - Once uploaded:
    - Write a tuple setting the user as the `owner` of the new file.
    - Write a tuple setting the parent folder as the `parent` of the new file.
- Sharing a file:
  - Check if the current user has a `can_share` relationship with the file.
  - Write a tuple setting the user we shared the file with as a `viewer` of the file.
- Editing a file:
  - TBD
- Deleting a file:
  - TBD

#### Folders

- Requesting a folder:
  - Check if the current user has a `can_view` relationship to the folder.
- Requesting all folders for a parent folder:
  - Check if the current user has a `can_view` relationship to the parent folder.
  - Check for a `can_view` relationship with all folders withing the parent.
- Creating a new folder:
  - Check if the user has a `can_create_folder` relationship for its parent.
  - Once created:
    - Write a new tuple setting the current user as its `owner`.
    - Write a new tuple setting the parent folders as its `parent`.
- Sharing a folder:
  - Check if the curent user `can_share` the folder.
  - Write a tuple setting the new user as a `viewer`.
- Editing a folder:
  - TBD
- Deleting a folder:
  - TBD

## 4. Configure Vercel KV

Go to the [Vercel dashboard](https://vercel.com/) and create a new KV store.

You can copy the below `.env` variables from the **Getting started** page of your store:

### Vercel KV environment

```bash
KV_URL="redis://****.upstash.io:****"
KV_REST_API_URL="https://****.upstash.io"
KV_REST_API_TOKEN="****"
KV_REST_API_READ_ONLY_TOKEN="****"
```

## 5. Architecture

### Get a file

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram;
  participant Next.js Page
  participant Next.js Server Actions
  participant Data Access Layer (DAL)
  participant Vercel KV
  participant Uploads folder
  participant Auth0
  participant OpenFGA
  Next.js Page->>Next.js Server Actions: Request file action
  Next.js Server Actions->>Data Access Layer (DAL): Pass get file request
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)Auth0: Authentication Check
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Authorization Check for file (user, can_view, file)
  Data Access Layer (DAL)->>Vercel KV: Look for file in the store
  Vercel KV->>Data Access Layer (DAL): Return file location
  Data Access Layer (DAL)->>Next.js Server Actions: Return file location
  Next.js Server Actions->>Next.js Page: Return file location
  Next.js Page->>Uploads folder: Request file
  Uploads folder->>Next.js Page: Display file
```

### Get files for folder

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram;
  participant Next.js Page
  participant Next.js Server Actions
  participant Data Access Layer (DAL)
  participant Vercel KV
  participant Auth0
  participant OpenFGA
  Next.js Page->>Next.js Server Actions: Request files action
  Next.js Server Actions->>Data Access Layer (DAL): Pass get files request
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)Auth0: Authentication Check
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Authorization Check for parent folder (user,can_view, folder)
  Data Access Layer (DAL)->>Vercel KV: Look for files in the store
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Check Authorization for each file (user, can_view, file)
  Vercel KV->>Data Access Layer (DAL): Return files
  Data Access Layer (DAL)->>Next.js Server Actions: Return files
  Next.js Server Actions->>Next.js Page: Return files
```

### Upload a file

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram;
  participant Next.js Page
  participant Next.js Server Actions
  participant Data Access Layer (DAL)
  participant Vercel KV
  participant Uploads folder
  participant Auth0
  participant OpenFGA
  Next.js Page->>Next.js Server Actions: Upload file action
  Next.js Server Actions->>Data Access Layer (DAL): Pass the uploaded file
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)Auth0: Authentication Check
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Authorization Check for parent folder (user, can_create_file, folder)
  Data Access Layer (DAL)->>Uploads folder: Upload image file
  Data Access Layer (DAL)->>Vercel KV: Store image metadata
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Create new tuple (user, owner, file)
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Create new tuple (parent folder, parent, file)
  Data Access Layer (DAL)->>Next.js Server Actions: Return files
  Next.js Server Actions->>Next.js Page: Return files
```

### Share a file

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram;
  participant Next.js Page
  participant Next.js Server Actions
  participant Data Access Layer (DAL)
  participant Auth0
  participant OpenFGA
  Next.js Page->>Next.js Server Actions: Share file action
  Next.js Server Actions->>Data Access Layer (DAL): Pass the shared file data
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)Auth0: Authentication Check
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Authorization check (user, can_share, file)
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)Auth0: Request userId from email
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Create new tuple (userId, viewer, file)
```

### Get a folder

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram;
  participant Next.js Page
  participant Next.js Server Actions
  participant Data Access Layer (DAL)
  participant Vercel KV
  participant Auth0
  participant OpenFGA
  Next.js Page->>Next.js Server Actions: Request folder action
  Next.js Server Actions->>Data Access Layer (DAL): Pass get folder request
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)Auth0: Authentication Check
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Authorization Check for folder (user, can_view, folder)
  Data Access Layer (DAL)->>Vercel KV: Look for fodler metadata in the store
  Vercel KV->>Data Access Layer (DAL): Return folder metadata
  Data Access Layer (DAL)->>Next.js Server Actions: Return folder
  Next.js Server Actions->>Next.js Page: Return folder metadata
```

### Get folders for folder

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram;
  participant Next.js Page
  participant Next.js Server Actions
  participant Data Access Layer (DAL)
  participant Vercel KV
  participant Auth0
  participant OpenFGA
  Next.js Page->>Next.js Server Actions: Request folders action
  Next.js Server Actions->>Data Access Layer (DAL): Pass get folders request
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)Auth0: Authentication Check
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Authorization Check for parent folder (user, can_view, parent folder)
  Data Access Layer (DAL)->>Vercel KV: Look for folders in the store
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Check Authorization for each folders (user, can_view, folder)
  Vercel KV->>Data Access Layer (DAL): Return folders
  Data Access Layer (DAL)->>Next.js Server Actions: Return folders
  Next.js Server Actions->>Next.js Page: Return folders
```

### Create a folder

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram;
  participant Next.js Page
  participant Next.js Server Actions
  participant Data Access Layer (DAL)
  participant Vercel KV
  participant Auth0
  participant OpenFGA
  Next.js Page->>Next.js Server Actions: Create folder action
  Next.js Server Actions->>Data Access Layer (DAL): Pass the new folder name and  parent
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)Auth0: Authentication Check
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Authorization Check for parent folder (user, can_create_folder, parent folder)
  Data Access Layer (DAL)->>Vercel KV: Store folder data
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Create new tuple (user, owner, folder)
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Create new tuple (parent folder, parent, folder)
  Data Access Layer (DAL)->>Next.js Server Actions: Return folder name
  Next.js Server Actions->>Next.js Page: Return folder name
```

### Share a folder

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram;
  participant Next.js Page
  participant Next.js Server Actions
  participant Data Access Layer (DAL)
  participant Auth0
  participant OpenFGA
  Next.js Page->>Next.js Server Actions: Share folder action
  Next.js Server Actions->>Data Access Layer (DAL): Pass the shared folder data
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)Auth0: Authentication Check
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Authorization check (user, can_share, folder)
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)Auth0: Request userId from email
  Data Access Layer (DAL)--)OpenFGA: Create new tuple (userId, viewer, folder)
```
